Adding xeon_run_cpu.rst doc (#2931)
pytorch/tutorials: recipes_source/xeon_run_cpu.rst

torch.backends.xeon.run_cpu
===========================

There are a set of configurations that would influence the performance of PyTorch inference running on Intel(R) Xeon(R) Scalable Processors.
To get peak performance, the ``torch.backends.xeon.run_cpu`` script is provided that optimizes the configuration of thread and memory management.
For thread management, the script configures thread affinity and the preload of Intel(R) OMP library.
For memory management, it configures NUMA binding and preloads optimized memory allocation libraries (e.g. TCMalloc, JeMalloc).
In addition, the script provides tunable parameters for compute resource allocation in both single instance and multiple instance scenarios,
helping the users try out an optimal coordination of resource utilization for the specific workloads.

> 

Reviewer: Please add a "What you will learn" section. It can look like this:

```
What you will learn
-------------------

* How to configure thread and memory management to maximize PyTorch inference performance on Intel(R) Xeon(R) processors.
* How to utilize tools like ``numactl``, ``taskset``, and memory allocators such as TCMalloc and JeMalloc for enhanced performance.

Prerequisites

> -------------

Author: Here by "prerequisites" I mean the users should install numactl/IntelOMP/TCMalloc/JeMalloc in prior to running the script, but seems misleading.
I changed the sections title to "Introduction for Optimizations", and the following sub-titles are changed "Applying NUMA Access Control", "Using Intel(R) OpenMP Runtime Library" and "Choosing an Optimized Memory Allocator". Does it look clearer?

NUMA Access Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is a good thing that more and more CPU cores are provided to users in one socket, as it brings in more computation resources.
However, this also brings memory access competitions. Program can stall because memory is busy to visit.
To address this problem, Non-Uniform Memory Access (NUMA) was introduced.
Comparing to Uniform Memory Access (UMA), in which scenario all the memories are connected to all cores equally,
NUMA tells memories into multiple groups. Certain number of memories are directly attached to one socket's integrated memory controller to become local memory of this socket.
Local memory access is much faster than remote memory access.

Users can get CPU information with ``lscpu`` command on Linux to learn how many cores, sockets are there on the machine.

> Also, NUMA information like how CPU cores are distributed can also be retrieved.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, this command provides NUMA information, such as the distribution of CPU cores.
```

> The following is an example of ``lscpu`` execution on a machine with Intel (R) Xeon (R) CPU Max 9480.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is an example of executing  ``lscpu`` on a machine equipped with an Intel(R) Xeon(R) CPU Max 9480:
```

2 sockets were detected. Each socket has 56 physical cores onboard. Since Hyper-Threading is enabled, each core can run 2 threads.
i.e. each socket has another 56 logical cores. Thus, there are 224 CPU cores on service.
When indexing CPU cores, usually physical cores are indexed before logical core.
In this case, the first 56 cores (0-55) are physical cores on the first NUMA socket (node), the second 56 cores (56-111) are physical cores on the second NUMA socket (node).
Logical cores are indexed afterward. 112-167 are 56 logical cores on the first NUMA socket,
168-223 are the second 56 logical cores on the second NUMA socket.

> Typically, running PyTorch programs with compute intense workloads should avoid using logical cores to get good performance.

Reviewer: I suggest to move lines 27-33 after the code block - see below.

.. code-block:: console

   $ lscpu
   ...
   CPU(s):                  224
     On-line CPU(s) list:   0-223
   Vendor ID:               GenuineIntel
     Model name:            Intel (R) Xeon (R) CPU Max 9480
       CPU family:          6
       Model:               143
       Thread(s) per core:  2
       Core(s) per socket:  56
       Socket(s):           2
   ...
   NUMA:
     NUMA node(s):          2
     NUMA node0 CPU(s):     0-55,112-167
     NUMA node1 CPU(s):     56-111,168-223

>    ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   ...
* Two sockets were detected, each containing 56 physical cores. With Hyper-Threading enabled, each core can handle 2 threads, resulting in 56 logical cores per socket. Therefore, the machine has a total of 224 CPU cores in service.
* Typically, physical cores are indexed before logical cores. In this scenario, cores 0-55 are the physical cores on the first NUMA node, and cores 56-111 are the physical cores on the second NUMA node.
* Logical cores are indexed subsequently: cores 112-167 correspond to the logical cores on the first NUMA node, and cores 168-223 to those on the second NUMA node.

Typically, running PyTorch programs with compute intense workloads should avoid using logical cores to get good performance.
```

> Linux provides a tool, ``numactl``, that allows user control of NUMA policy for processes or shared memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Linux provides a tool called ``numactl`` that allows user control of NUMA policy for processes or shared memory.
```

   $ yum install numactl

on CentOS.

The ``taskset`` command in Linux is another powerful utility that allows you to set or retrieve the CPU affinity of a running process.
``taskset`` are pre-installed in most Linux distributions and in case it's not, we can install it with command

.. code-block:: console

   $ apt-get install util-linux

on Ubuntu, or

.. code-block:: console

   $ yum install util-linux

on CentOS.

OpenMP
~~~~~~

OpenMP is an implementation of multithreading, a method of parallelizing where a primary thread (a series of instructions executed consecutively) forks a specified number of sub-threads and the system divides a task among them. The threads then run concurrently, with the runtime environment allocating threads to different processors.
Users can control OpenMP behaviors with some environment variable settings to fit for their workloads, the settings are read and executed by OMP libraries. By default, PyTorch uses GNU OpenMP Library (GNU libgomp) for parallel computation. On Intel(R) platforms, Intel(R) OpenMP Runtime Library (libiomp) provides OpenMP API specification support. It usually brings more performance benefits compared to libgomp.

> The Intel(R) OpenMP Runtime Library can be installed via the command

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Intel(R) OpenMP Runtime Library can be installed using one of these commands:
```

.. code-block:: console

   $ pip install intel-openmp

or

.. code-block:: console

   $ conda install mkl

> Memory Allocator

Reviewer: Same as above - I wish the heading could be a bit more descriptive - maybe "Choosing Memory Allocators"?

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Memory allocator plays an important role from performance perspective as well. A more efficient memory usage reduces overhead on unnecessary memory allocations or destructions, and thus results in a faster execution. From practical experiences, for deep learning workloads, JeMalloc or TCMalloc can get better performance by reusing memory as much as possible than default malloc function.

> TCMalloc can be installed by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can install TCMalloc by running the following command on Ubuntu:
```

.. code-block:: console

   $ apt-get install google-perftools

> on Ubuntu, or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On CentOS, you can install it by running:
```

.. code-block:: console

   $ yum install gperftools

> on CentOS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> In conda environment, it can also be installed by

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a conda environment, it can also be installed by running:
```

.. code-block:: console

   $ conda install conda-forge::gperftools

JeMalloc can be installed by

.. code-block:: console

   $ apt-get install libjemalloc2

on Ubuntu, or

.. code-block:: console

   $ yum install jemalloc

on CentOS, or

.. code-block:: console

   $ conda install conda-forge::jemalloc

in conda environment.

Quick Start Example Commands
----------------------------

> 1. To run single-instance inference with 1 thread on 1 CPU core (only Core #0 would be used)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To run single-instance inference with 1 thread on 1 CPU core (only Core #0 would be used):
```

.. code-block:: console

   $ python -m torch.backends.xeon.run_cpu --ninstances 1 --ncores-per-instance 1 <program.py> [program_args]

> 2. To run single-instance inference on a single CPU node (NUMA socket).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. To run single-instance inference on a single CPU node (NUMA socket):
```

.. code-block:: console

   $ python -m torch.backends.xeon.run_cpu --node-id 0 <program.py> [program_args]

> 3. To run multi-instance inference, 8 instances with 14 cores per instance on a 112-core CPU

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. To run multi-instance inference, 8 instances with 14 cores per instance on a 112-core CPU:
```

.. code-block:: console

   $ python -m torch.backends.xeon.run_cpu --ninstances 8 --ncores-per-instance 14 <program.py> [program_args]

> 4. To run inference in throughput mode, in which all the cores in each CPU node set up an instance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. To run inference in throughput mode, in which all the cores in each CPU node set up an instance:
```

.. code-block:: console

   $ python -m torch.backends.xeon.run_cpu --throughput-mode <program.py> [program_args]

.. note::

   Term "instance" here doesn't refer to a cloud instance. This script is executed as a single process which invokes multiple "instances" which are formed from multiple threads. "Instance" is kind of group of threads in this context.

> Usage of torch.backends.xeon.run_cpu

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using ``torch.backends.xeon.run_cpu``
```

------------------------------------

> The argument list and usage guidance can be shown with

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The argument list and usage guidance can be shown with the following command: 
```

.. code-block:: console

   $ python -m torch.backends.xeon.run_cpu –h
   usage: run_cpu.py [-h] [--multi-instance] [-m] [--no-python] [--enable-tcmalloc] [--enable-jemalloc] [--use-default-allocator] [--disable-iomp] [--ncores-per-instance] [--ninstances] [--skip-cross-node-cores] [--rank] [--latency-mode] [--throughput-mode] [--node-id] [--use-logical-core] [--disable-numactl] [--disable-taskset] [--core-list] [--log-path] [--log-file-prefix] <program> [program_args]

> positional arguments
> ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The command above has the following positional arguments:

```

+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| knob             | help                                                    |
+==================+=========================================================+
| ``program``      | The full path of the program/script to be launched.     |
+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| ``program_args`` | All the arguments for the program/script to be launched.|
+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------+

Explanation of the options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> The generic option settings (knobs) are:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generic option settings (knobs) include the following:
```

| ``--throughput-mode``       | bool | False         | A quick set to invoke benchmarking with throughput mode, in which all physical cores are used and 1 numa node per instance.                  |
+-----------------------------+------+---------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--disable-numactl``       | bool | False         | By default ``numactl`` command is used to control NUMA access. Setting this flag will disable it.                                            |
+-----------------------------+------+---------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
| ``--disable-taskset``       | bool | False         | Disable the usage of ``taskset`` command.                                                                                                    |
+-----------------------------+------+---------------+----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

.. note::

>    Environment variables that will be set by this script include

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Environment variables that will be set by this script include the following
```

   |   KMP_AFFINITY   | If libiomp5.so is preloaded, KMP_AFFINITY could be set to "granularity=fine,compact,1,0".       |
   +------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   |   KMP_BLOCKTIME  | If libiomp5.so is preloaded, KMP_BLOCKTIME is set to "1".                                       |
   +------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   |  OMP_NUM_THREADS | value of ncores_per_instance                                                                    |
   +------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+
   |    MALLOC_CONF   | If libjemalloc.so is preloaded, MALLOC_CONF will be set to                                      |
   |                  | "oversize_threshold:1,background_thread:true,metadata_thp:auto".                                |
   +------------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> 

Reviewer: Please add a conclusion section. For example:
```
Conclusion
---------------

In this tutorial, we explored a variety of advanced configurations and tools designed to optimize PyTorch inference performance on Intel(R) Xeon(R) Scalable Processors. 
By leveraging the ``torch.backends.xeon.run_cpu script``, we demonstrated how to fine-tune thread and memory 
management to achieve peak performance. We covered essential concepts such as NUMA access control, 
memory allocators like TCMalloc and JeMalloc, and the use of OpenMP for efficient multithreading.

Additionally, we provided practical command-line examples to guide you through setting up single and multiple
 instance scenarios, ensuring optimal resource utilization tailored to specific workloads. By understanding and 
applying these techniques, users can significantly enhance the efficiency and speed of their PyTorch applications 
on Intel(R) Xeon(R) platforms.

See also:

* Link 1
* Link 2
* Link 3

>    Please note that the script respects environment variables set preliminarily. i.e. If you have set the environment variables mentioned above before running the script, the values of the variables will not overwritten by the script.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Please note that the script respects environment variables set preliminarily. For example, if you have set the environment variables mentioned above before running the script, the values of the variables will not be overwritten by the script.
```

Optimizing PyTorch Inference with Intel(R) Xeon(R) Scalable Processors
======================================================================

There are several configuration options that can impact the performance of PyTorch inference when executed on Intel(R) Xeon(R) Scalable Processors.
To get peak performance, the ``torch.backends.xeon.run_cpu`` script is provided that optimizes the configuration of thread and memory management.
For thread management, the script configures thread affinity and the preload of Intel(R) OMP library.
For memory management, it configures NUMA binding and preloads optimized memory allocation libraries, such as TCMalloc and JeMalloc.
In addition, the script provides tunable parameters for compute resource allocation in both single instance and multiple instance scenarios,
helping the users try out an optimal coordination of resource utilization for the specific workloads.

What You Will Learn
-------------------

> * How to utilize tools like ``numactl``, ``taskset``, Intel(R) OpenMP Runtime Library and optimized memory allocators such as ``TCMalloc`` and ``JeMalloc`` for enhanced performance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* How to utilize tools like ``numactl``, ``taskset``, Intel(R) OpenMP Runtime Library and
   optimized memory allocators such as ``TCMalloc`` and ``JeMalloc`` for enhanced performance.
```

Author: Hi @svekars , it looks like we needn't separate these 2 sentences in 2 lines since they are bullets and have asterisks at the beginning.
With this change the output doc has 2 paragraphs for each bullet.
![image](https://github.com/pytorch/tutorials/assets/109502517/610a2bb3-df3c-44b2-957b-685f807a70d9)

> * How to configure CPU resources and memory management to maximize PyTorch inference performance on Intel(R) Xeon(R) processors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* How to configure CPU resources and memory management to maximize PyTorch
   inference performance on Intel(R) Xeon(R) processors.
```

The command above has the following positional arguments:

+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| knob             | help                                                    |
+==================+=========================================================+
| ``program``      | The full path of the program/script to be launched.     |
+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------+
| ``program_args`` | All the arguments for the program/script to be launched.|
+------------------+---------------------------------------------------------+

Explanation of the options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The generic option settings (knobs) include the following:

+----------------------+------+---------------+-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------+

> | knob                 | type | default value | help                                                                                                                    |

Reviewer: not sure why by the header row (Defaul value) in this table looks a bit weird:

<img width="874" alt="Screenshot 2024-06-20 at 10 31 03 AM" src="https://github.com/pytorch/tutorials/assets/5317992/520d3f5e-46e7-471f-8260-e95f3334718f">

I myself prefer [list-tables](https://sublime-and-sphinx-guide.readthedocs.io/en/latest/tables.html#list-table-directive) for tables like this, For example:

```
.. list-table::
   :widths: 25 10 15 50
   :header-rows: 1
   * - knob
     - type
     - default value
     - help
   * - ``-h``, ``--help``
     - 
     - 
     - Show the help message and exit.
   * - ``-m``, ``--module``
     - 
     - 
     - Changes each process to interpret the launch script as a python module, executing with the same behavior as "python -m".
   * - ``--no-python``
     - bool
     - False
     - Do not prepend the program with "python" - just exec it directly. Useful when the script is not a Python script.
   * - ``--log-path``
     - str
     - ''
     - The log file directory. Default path is ``''``, which means disable logging to files.
   * - ``--log-file-prefix``
     - str
     - 'run'
     - log file name prefix.
 ```

Author: Thanks. I pushed a commit updating the formatting syntax of the tables per your advice.
Not deleting the old formatted tables for comparison.
